README.md, before:

# Appointment Scheduler

## Overview

This is a Node.js and Express-based voice application that collects patient information, offers available appointment slots, and sends confirmation emails. It uses:

-   Twilio Voice API for telephony and speech recognition
-   SendGrid for sending confirmation emails
-   Express.js for the server and routing

## Features

-   Multi-step voice interaction collecting patient name, email, and reason for visit
-   Reads available appointment slots and lets users select via speech
-   Sends confirmation emails to patients with appointment details
-   Session management to track call progress and user responses

## Setup

## Prerequisites

-   Node.js and npm installed
-   A Twilio phone number with voice webhook configured
-   A SendGrid account and verified sender email
-   ngrok or public URL to expose your local server (for Twilio webhooks)

Once you have those, create a .env file:

```
SENDGRID_API_KEY=your_sendgrid_api_key
```

## Running the App

1. node index.js
2. ngrok http 3000
3. Set your Twilio voice webhook URL to https://your-ngrok-url/info
4. Call your Twilio number

## How It Works

1. User calls the Twilio number.
2. The /info route collects name, email, and reason for visit via speech.
3. After collecting info, the call redirects to /appointments where available slots are read.
4. User selects appointment by speaking.
5. Confirmation email is sent using SendGrid.
6. Call ends.

## Future Improvements

-   Add address collection and validation.
-   Add referral question with conditional flow.
-   Improve appointment matching with fuzzy string logic.
-   Add persistent database storage.
-   Better error handling and retries.

## Author

Built by [Daniel Acquesta](https://danielacquesta.dev)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

update readme after hosting on railway

README.md, after:

# Appointment Scheduler

## Overview

This is a Node.js and Express-based voice application that collects patient information, offers available appointment slots, and sends confirmation emails. It uses:

-   Twilio Voice API for telephony and speech recognition
-   SendGrid for sending confirmation emails
-   Express.js for the server and routing

## Features

-   Multi-step voice interaction collecting patient name, email, and reason for visit
-   Reads available appointment slots and lets users select via speech
-   Sends confirmation emails to patients with appointment details
-   Session management to track call progress and user responses

## How to Test the Voice App

### Please Note

-   The Twilio trial account used for telephony features will expire around June 20th, after which the voice functionality will no longer work unless the account is upgraded.
-   No paid upgrades have been made; this deployment is provided free of charge for demonstration purposes only.
-   SendGrid is used under its free tier limits without a credit card on file, so email functionality is also subject to those constraints.
-   This approach ensures cost control and responsible usage during the job search process.

### To Test

The application runs as a backend service accessible via a public URL (e.g., `https://appointment-scheduler-production.up.railway.app`). However, **users do not interact directly with this URL**.

Instead:

-   You (or any tester) **call the Twilio phone number** assigned to this project: 856-588-5063.
-   When the call connects, Twilio sends a webhook request to the backend URL (e.g., `/info`) behind the scenes.
-   Your server responds with TwiML instructions telling Twilio how to conduct the voice interaction (ask questions, gather responses, etc.).
-   The user interacts with the system by speaking on the phone, not by visiting the URL.

---

### Summary

| What you share with testers                                                            | What actually happens                                                                           |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Twilio phone number** (e.g., `+1-856-588-5063`)                                      | Callers dial this number to start the voice flow.                                               |
| **Backend URL** (e.g., `https://appointment-scheduler-production.up.railway.app/info`) | Twilio uses this URL internally to get call instructions. Callers never see or use it directly. |

## Setup

## Prerequisites

-   Node.js and npm installed
-   A Twilio phone number with voice webhook configured
-   A SendGrid account and verified sender email
-   ngrok or public URL to expose your local server (for Twilio webhooks)

Once you have those, create a .env file:

```
SENDGRID_API_KEY=your_sendgrid_api_key
```

## Running the App

1. node index.js
2. ngrok http 3000
3. Set your Twilio voice webhook URL to https://your-ngrok-url/info
4. Call your Twilio number

## How It Works

1. User calls the Twilio number.
2. The /info route collects name, email, and reason for visit via speech.
3. After collecting info, the call redirects to /appointments where available slots are read.
4. User selects appointment by speaking.
5. Confirmation email is sent using SendGrid.
6. Call ends.

## Future Improvements

-   Add address collection and validation.
-   Add referral question with conditional flow.
-   Improve appointment matching with fuzzy string logic.
-   Add persistent database storage.
-   Better error handling and retries.

## Author

Built by [Daniel Acquesta](https://danielacquesta.dev)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
